So now let's talk about the resources.
And as I said before, the resources are the core
of your CloudFormation templates,
and this is the only mandatory section
in your entire CloudFormation templates.
These resources are going to represent
the different AWS components that will be created
and configured as part of your templates.
The resources are declared and can reference each other,
and then AWS is going to figure out the creation,
the updates, and the deletes of the resources for us.
There are so many types of resources.
They are always increasing in number.
Right now, there are over 700 types of resources,
and I can't teach you them all,
but I can teach you how to read the documentation.
So the resource type identifiers
are going to be in the form of
service-provider::service-name::data-type-name.
So how do we find the resource documentation?
Well, there's a page in which we right now
which has them all.
Then we just read the docs
and by the knowledge acquired in this course and the docs,
we should be good to go.
So let's have a look at these two links.
So the first link represents
all the possible CloudFormation resources.
So we can see here the format.
and then we can select the resource types.
So for example, let's have a look at Amazon Kinesis.
Within Kinesis we have two resource types.
And if you scroll back and you just look at Amazon EC2,
we have all these resources for Amazon EC2.
And if we wanted to have a look at a specific one,
for example, AWS::EC2::Instance,
this is the documentation for this type.
And so this is the same page as the one I had linked
in my slides.
So these two pages are the same.
And so here we have the syntax of this.
So we've been using this before,
and the syntax is either in JSON form,
which to me is very difficult to read, or YAML.
And so we can have a look at the type, it's EC2::Instance,
and then we get properties.
And properties are a list of key value pairs.
As you can see, they're all here.
And by clicking on one of them,
you get to learn how to use it.
For example, if you click on IamInstanceProfile,
you click on it and then you get the information
that this is the name of an IamInstanceProfile.
Then it tells you how to create an instance profile
by going here, and then you would have to look
at the YAML form and see how to create it.
And then it tells us that it's not required.
So we haven't been using it.
So it's not a mandatory property to fill in
to create an EC2 instance.
The type is String.
And if you do add it, or if you do create it
on an existing EC2 instance, it requires no interruption.
That means that the EC2 instance is not going to be stopped,
it's not going to be terminated or replaced.
But if you were to change the ImageId, the AMI ID,
then the update requires a replacement, of course, right?
So you get an access of all the syntax
of all the properties of the return values,
the examples that show in YAML and in JSON
how to use these things.
So it's quite handy, as well as more links if need be.
So going back into our stack,
we had a look at just EC2 YAML.
So we have type EC2::Instance,
and we had three properties that we put in,
AvailabilityZone, ImageId, and InstanceType.
And if we have a look at this one,
we had an EC2::Instance, but also had SecurityGroups.
So as you can see, it's a list.
So going back into the documentation,
let's have a look at the syntax
and click on SecurityGroupsId, or security groups.
Here we go, security groups.
And it says it's an Array of String,
and it says here are the names of the security groups.
So very easy.
And then we have these references right here.
So again, the documentation can help us understand
these things.
For the elastic IP,
this is a whole different type of documentation page.
So to find it, I would type "elastic IP cloudformation,"
and then automatically you will find
on the docs the correct page,
which tells you how to declare an elastic IP.
So here is how to.
And then in the bottom under examples,
you can see as well how to create one.
And this is what I've been using in my own templates.
And so here you have SSHSecurityGroup.
Again, look at the docs to understand how it works,
and so on.
And so this is the whole power of resources.
Now you know how to create resources
and how to find the documentation
to properly fill in the properties you need.
As you can see, there are tons of properties available
for many resources.
And so this is all the things
you can specify in the console,
usually can also be specified through CloudFormation.
Now, there are a few frequently asked questions
for resources.
So first one, "Can I create a dynamic number of resources?"
So yes, you can and you need to use
CloudFormation Macros and Transform,
but it is really not in scope for this course.
In this course, everything you write in the template
is what's being created,
and you cannot dynamically create a number of resources.
"Is every AWS Service supported?"
The answer is almost.
Only a select few things are not there yet.
And the way to work around it,
and the way the exam expects you to know
how to work around it,
is by the usage of CloudFormation Custom Resources.
So remember that, and I will be talking to you
about them a little bit more later in this course.
Alright, so that's it for resources.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.